Backend Go Lang Engineer Assessment

Problem 1: Distributed Key-Value Store
Design and implement a distributed key-value store system using Go Lang. The system
should consist of multiple server nodes that communicate with each other to store and
retrieve key-value pairs. The key requirements for the system are as follows:

1. Scalability: The system should be horizontally scalable, allowing the addition of new
nodes to handle increased load.

2. Consistency: Ensure strong consistency guarantees across all nodes in the system,
even
in the presence of failures and network partitions.

3. Fault Tolerance: Implement mechanisms to handle node failures gracefully and maintain
data availability and integrity.

4. Concurrency: Support concurrent read and write operations efficiently while maintaining
data consistency.

5. Partitioning: Implement data partitioning strategies to distribute key-value pairs evenly
across multiple nodes.

Your solution should include the following components:
- A Go Lang implementation of the server nodes capable of communication and
coordination.
- Data structures and algorithms for distributed data storage and retrieval.
- Mechanisms for handling node failures, network partitions, and data replication.
- Implementation of concurrency control mechanisms to ensure data consistency and
integrity.
- Detailed documentation explaining the design decisions, system architecture, and
deployment instructions.
Define the Data Model:
● Each key-value pair will be stored in the system. Define a struct to
represent a key-value pair.

type KeyValuePair struct {
Key string
Value string
}

1. Node Communication:
● Implement a communication protocol for nodes to communicate with
each other. You can use HTTP or TCP for inter-node communication.
2. Partitioning Strategy:
● Choose a partitioning strategy (e.g., consistent hashing) to distribute
key-value pairs across nodes evenly.
3. Replication:
● Decide on a replication strategy (e.g., quorum replication) to replicate
data across multiple nodes for fault tolerance.
4. Concurrency Control:
● Implement mechanisms for concurrency control, such as locks or
versioning, to ensure data consistency during concurrent read and
write operations.
5. Failure Handling:
● Implement mechanisms to detect and handle node failures, such as
heartbeating and leader election.
6. Scalability:
● Ensure that the system is horizontally scalable by allowing the addition
of new nodes dynamically.
7. Consistency:
● Guarantee strong consistency across all nodes, even in the presence of
failures and network partitions.
